CI: add CycloneDX SBOM generation for releases (#7698)
OSGeo/grass: SECURITY.md

them publicly. We ask that you refrain from disclosing any details of the
vulnerability until we have had adequate time to provide a fix.

## Software Bill of Materials (SBOM)

GRASS publishes a CycloneDX SBOM with every official release.

- The SBOM is generated automatically in CI via [Syft](https://github.com/anchore/syft)

>   and attached as `grass.cyclonedx.json` to each GitHub release draft.

Reviewer: Worth stating what the SBOM does and does not cover (see the review for what it currently contains), and using the CycloneDX-recognized `*.cdx.json` name:

```suggestion
- The SBOM is generated automatically in CI via [Syft](https://github.com/anchore/syft)
  and attached as `grass.cdx.json` to each GitHub release draft.
  It covers dependencies declared in the source tree (Python package
  requirements); components linked at build time (GDAL, PROJ, GEOS,
  etc.) are resolved only in built artifacts and appear in the Docker
  image SBOMs where they are installed from OS package repositories.
```

> - For Docker images, an SBOM is embedded at build time (`sbom: true` in
>   `docker/build-push-action`) and attestations are published via
>   `actions/attest-build-provenance`.

Reviewer: The Docker workflow uses `actions/attest`, not `actions/attest-build-provenance` (only a stale permissions comment mentions the latter). The workflow details are visible in the CI files and go stale when they change; readers here need the facts, not the mechanism:

```suggestion
- For Docker images, an SBOM is embedded in the image at build time and
  build attestations are published.
```

> - To generate an SBOM locally, install Syft and run `make sbom` from the
>   repository root.

Reviewer: If the CMake target from the Makefile comment is added:

```suggestion
- To generate an SBOM locally, install Syft and run `make sbom` from the
  repository root, or build the `sbom` target with CMake
  (`cmake --build <build dir> --target sbom`).
```
